From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Hanselman. It's a weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologist and Scott Hanselman hosted
by Carl Franklin. This is Lauren's
Ryan announcing show number one
26. Recorded live Friday, August 8th, 2008.
Support for Hanselman is provided
by tolerant rad controls, the
most comprehensive suite of components
for windows forms and asp.net
web application. online@wwwdotteldrik.com. Support is
also provided by.net developers journal.
The world's leading.net developer magazine
online at www dot
dot com. In this episode,
Scott talks with jQuery creator,
John Resig. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman and this is
another episode of Hansel minutes.
And I'm sitting down today
with John Resig, the creator
of jQuery and JavaScript evangelists
for Mozilla. Thanks a lot
for taking the time to
chat with me today. So
you brought jQuery to the
world in January of 2006
at, at bar camp 2006.
Is that right? And that
wasn't very long ago. It
just seems like there's so
much stuff on the internet
that's happening so quickly that
it feels like jQuery has
always been around, but I'm
looking at my calendar and
that was not very long
ago. Yeah. A lot could
happen to the, just a
couple of years. Yeah. Did,
did this, was this something
that came to you as
a Eureka moment? Did it,
I had you, or had
you been working on this
for, you know, in the
quiet for a long period
of time before you brought
it out? I guess, I
guess in the quiet, I
mean, I'm, I guess traditionally
I'm pretty much a hacker
at heart. You know, I
like to, I always have
bunches of little side projects
that I like to work
on in my spare time.
And a couple of these
side projects were, were, were
just tools. And I had
built that sort of came
together in the form of,
of jQuery. So like I
was originally working an animation,
a toolkit that I, that
I was just playing around
with. And then I was
also working on a selector
library for doing CSS, selectors
and JavaScript. And these two
tools came together and I
into just this little, little
framework. So it was more
of an amalgam of rather
than doing something from, from
the outright. Hmm. A lot
of people say that it
fits together in such a
natural way in such a
comfortable and, and maybe fluent
as a cliche, but in
a very fluent way, you
know, when did it come
to you that you should
have the jQuery object be
returned from every method and
then chain things together? One
thing that I wanted was
I wanted to is, is
what I wanted to do
is I want it to
have the shortest syntax possible
for doing things within the
document. And so, so this,
you know, from manipulating for
attaching events, for modifying an
attribute, so all of these
things I wanted have the
shortest physical code. So one,
you know, sort of, I
guess, I guess, you know,
hack that I had that
I had for doing this
was, this is cheating. You
know, we turning the object
itself because I could do
that. And it was all
the shorts that the syntax
to be in the shorter,
it was, I guess it
was more incidental that it
ended up becoming actually usable
and interesting because it is
when, when I saw it
is more of just that
I wanted it to just
be really terse, Really. So
terseness was the goal, not
fluency. He didn't want it
to read like English, Not,
not explicitly. I mean, obviously
I wanted it to, to
still be understandable. I mean,
because I mean, obviously you
can pretty easily sacrifice usability
when you want to shoot
for chosenness. There's a lot
of languages that are, you
know, a good example of
that, but I, I, you
know, so I didn't want
that to occur. So instead
I was wanting to see
how far you could get
without, you know, without having
cryptic methods while you still
having things that, that made
sense. Now, when you, when
you, when you chain these
kinds of things together, and
you say something like, you
know, dollar sign, div dot
add, and then you start
kind of hopping back and
forth between strings that have
semantics and methods that have
semantics. How did you find
the balance between kind of
the, the semantics that were
tunneled into a string, like
saying, you know, P dot
quote or dev dot test
versus breaking that out into
methods? Cause I, I suspect
there's a lot of, of
string parsing going on because
you've got semantics for like
CSS selector, strings and things.
Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, I
guess it's actually good. There's,
there's certainly a lot of
method overloading going on in
jQuery. Cause there's no doubt
about that. And you know,
even down to the argument
level there, but I think
this is something that's sort
of Ru is it's, you
know, as the age of
I developed, you know, being
able to define that, you
know, if, if a selector
was ever coming in, then
it should be a string
and it should also be
able to accept these other
types of arguments. So what
happened is, is that internally
in J crew, there was
a number of methods that
started to be constructed that
could accept any of these
generic arguments, such as a
CSS selector stream or a
Dom element or an array
of Dom elements. And it
just, all these varieties and
the output would always be
the same. The output would
always be an array of
Dom elements. So that way
you could have these methods
that could accept any of
these inputs and it would
still have the same effective
behavior. Is there any, can
you get in trouble with
jQuery? I mean, can you,
does this is the syntax
so open and flexible that
you can, you can write
something that looks like an
auto work, but it just
doesn't because the, the underlying
engine just didn't see it
coming. And I mean, it's,
at this point, we we've
worked out most edge cases
pretty well. I mean, we,
we have a pretty strong
test. We here where we
do check for a lot
of these for, for potential
weirdness. So in most cases
now, I think we're quite
solid. Now, what do you
do your development? And I've
found at least I'm a
windows guy, although I've got
a couple of Macs in
the house, but I really
find that I'm pretty much
stuck in, you know, note
pad and, and Firebug is
where I live when it
comes to JavaScript development. It
just doesn't feel like on
the windows side that there's
a, a full fledged, you
know, world for developing this
kind of stuff, an ID,
you know, Aptana is pretty
good. The new version of
visual studio is pretty good,
but Java script for me
still feels kind of loosey
goosey, which, you know, it
makes sense given the dynamic
dynamicism of the language, but
w what do you use
for your development of JavaScript
application? I'm, I'm very similar.
I mean, I, I use
fireball a lot, you know,
significantly within my development, but
I don't use any IDs
in particular. I just, I
use a couple of different
editors. I use them. I
also use an editor for
OSS called off. So ISA
edit, I looked at what
it allows you to collaborate
in real time with other
people. It's, it's a pretty
simple editor, but the, the
collaboration is, is quite nice
legends that I know a
number of occasions, but I
I'm. Yeah. I'm not really
a bells and whistles kinda
guy. So I just, I
would just use a straightforward
tool. Yeah. You do a
lot of peer programming though
that way. It, it depends
on the situation. If I'm
doing the situation where I've
probably been, be most useful
is in pure web development.
So yeah, if I'm, if
I'm working on a web
page and like there's one
person editing the CSS as
one person editing the JavaScript's
or two people editing a
CSS, or, you know, that
way you can all pull
these houses together in real
time and be able to,
you know, work very dynamically
in that matter. I get
the impression from, from reading
your blog and from looking
at the projects that you're
very much kind of a
top down developer that really
it's the result that matters.
And you, you, you visualize
what you want it to,
what you want the end
result to look like. And
then you, you kind of
push down and make sure
that the underlying libraries support
that in an elegant and
an elegant way is that
that's just, again, gleaning this
from reading your projects. And
you've got all these great
examples where like, you know,
like just little stuff like
the sparklines library, we want
the, the way that you
implement this as simple as
possible at the, at the
very top level. Is that
how you work? Did you
think about the example first?
You think about the core
first you go from the
outside and or from the
inside out. It depends, I
guess it depends on the
project. I can think of
two projects in particular where
I've words off from the
outside end one was recently
released. I poured it there's
this, this visualization programming language
called processing implemented in, in
Java typically. And I ported
that to Java script. So
in that case, I worked
hopped out. I took a
whole bunch of demos that
worked, and I went through
one by one and I
made each demo work. And
in order to do that,
you know, I implemented a
number of aspects, you know,
a parser for the programming
language of various aspects of
the API, you know, and
just going through a piece
by piece and getting more
and more demos to work.
I'm not sure if that's,
I wouldn't say that that's
the best way to develop
at least in a holistic
sense, simply because the inevitability
of the gaps in your
development. But if you work,
you know, you can, you
can work around this though.
Well, the reason I asked
that is that there's, there's
a thoughtfulness to Jake, to
jQuery as an example. And
even the, even the code
for processing the processing JS
is so clean that it
makes it makes me wonder
what, what does that cleanliness
come from a real clear
understanding of where you want
it to go from the
inside out where you, you
visualize the design and you
knew that it was gonna
turn out that way, or
was it driven by requirements
of the, the end result?
I guess typically it's more
driven by requirements. I, I
like to see things grow
organically and you have to
sort of, as I, you
know, as a develop them,
but then, and then in,
you know, and kind of
mold it as it comes
towards a final result, I
enjoyed that style of development,
at least. Do you do
a lot of refactoring? Is
it very iterative? Yeah. Yeah.
Very much so Now, one
of the neat things about
jQuery, one of the things
that I think made it
take off was this, this
notion of this, of a
plugin, but because JavaScript is
so, so it's a loose,
it's so flexible. It's pretty,
it's a pretty loose definition.
A plugin in jQuery, right.
Is just a method or
series of methods that also
return the jQuery object. Is
that right? Yep. I was
just wondering why, why it's
been successful because, you know,
I was a prototype and,
you know, Scriptaculous guy for,
for the longest time. And
then just something about J
crew. I don't know if
it was the smallness of
it or the, the richness
of the plugin library. I'm
trying to get an understanding
of what, why is it
that this particular library is
taken off and A big
thing for me that, that
that's really gone on me.
Simplicity is just a simplicity
of just rules in so
many ways. It can, that,
you know, it makes development
simpler. You're able to leverage
it more and it's easier
to learn. It's easier to
document it's in so many
ways, it's I find a
more optimal experience. So when
you optimize for simplicity in
your development, in your code,
so the result is, ends
up being better all around
this carries on into, into
plugin development. If you, you
know, if you make adding
in plugins and developing plugins,
really simple, there's going to
be a lot of plugins.
And which is, which is
the case with jQuery there's,
there's hundreds and hundreds of
plugins. And, you know, and
even to the point where
there's a lot of duplication,
but I've, I don't particularly
think that this is necessarily
a bad thing because when,
when it's that simple for
a developer to get in
and start, you know, extending
it in that manner, there's
a lot of healthy competition
and you really see excellent
code start to rise to
the top, which I think
is great. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman with a word
from our sponsor. Do you
know how to build web
2.0 Ajax applications with web
1.0 components? You really can't.
If you want to do
the next generation web applications
you'll need next generation components,
just like the ones that
our friends at Telerik have
got their rad controls for
ESPN at Ajax. It's a
huge pack of web controls
built on top of asp.net
Ajax. That'll add previously impossible
performance interactivity to your next
project. The new controls mirror,
the Ajax from asp.net. So
development is really straightforward. The
client scripts are shared. So
loading time is not a
problem. If you just set
a couple of properties and
you'll be able to automatically
bind a web services for
a really efficient operation, the
new rad editor from ESPN
Ajax, Telerik loads up to
four times faster than before.
And the new rad grid
handles thousands of records and
just milliseconds, but as always,
it's best to try for
yourself. So you can visit
dot com slash ASP,
net Ajax, and download a
trial. Thanks a lot. What
are some of the plugins
that you find yourself turning
to that are ones that
you didn't write? I mean,
do you use, do you
use interface? Do you use
the, you know, what are
the, what are the plugins
that you turn to? I
mean, there's a, there's a
bunch like, I mean, definitely
for, you know, user interface
components, I'm, I'm almost always
training the plugins. I have
very little desire to write
another accordion or to write
another tab, you know, component.
So, I mean, in those
cases, you know, thankfully a
lot of those now have
integrated back into jQuery UI,
which is a project of
ours where we maintain UI
components. So I, I frequently
refer back to a jQuery
UI. There's also a number
of other plugins. There's one
called a live query, which
is quite cool and makes
the CFS queries and in
J Cray work live. So
if you add new information
to the document at any
point, so like from an
Ajax request or what have
you, it will run the
query again. And one in
an effective live, which is,
which is quite, it's quite
powerful. And another plugin that
I use a lot called
the form plugin, and it
it's able to take any
existing form and turn it
into an Ajax form. I
use that one all the
time. It's just immensely useful.
You can just drop it
in and it's the you've
converted, you know, in a
way that will degrade gracefully
your form into something that'll,
that's quite sexy. Yeah. Were
there any of these plugins,
or were there while you
were developing jQuery or watching
the jQuery community kind of
grow up around it, were
there any of these that
caused you to say, wow,
I didn't think that they'd
be able to pull that
off. And they did. I
mean, there's, there's just, there's,
there's big projects. I mean,
it's just seeing large scale,
you know, people take on,
you know, these large, that
might like there used to
be this plugin plugin called
interface. It has since been
superseded by a jQuery UI,
but, but that those whole
string of developments was quite
fascinating to, and I think
it's pretty cool to see
people know, develop these, these
large, I guess, subproducts of
jQuery and really see them
take a life of their
own. At what point do
you think that JavaScript as
a language and the browser
support got to the, to
the, to the place where
the jQuery was possible, because
JavaScript was kind of a
mess across, not as a
language, but implementation of it
across the different browsers was
really, was really pretty bad
for a long time, you
know, was it, was it
and Firefox two that
finally kind of pulled it
together? Or, you know, at
what point did this become
possible? I think, yeah. What
interested me about the dissolver
when I started to, well,
I guess I've been doing
web development for a long
time now, but doing front
end development, I've really started
to focus on back in
about 2004. And that was
about the time at which
a Firefox was released. And
I think that was at
least for me, a big
turning point in my, my
personal development. And so, but
I guess the big milestones
at least was the release
of Firefox. So Lisa Firebug
having Firebug and the toolset
providers, especially like being able
to have that console so
that you can dip in
and play with JavaScript, have
being able to profile and
JavaScript and stuff like that,
that I is deceptively simple
and incredibly powerful. And I
mean, those, you know, dramatically
changed how I worked. What
direction are you going to
take jQuery and the team
and take jQuery for, you
know, 2.0, you know, you
can kind of going forward
with, you know, 0.1 0.01
type 1.51, 1.52. Do you
have some big master plan
for, for 2.0, is it
going to, in, in what,
what would justify a major
release like that? The biggest
release that we're working on
right now is jQuery 1.3.
And this is w w
w as we usually do,
we're focusing on performance significantly.
So we're looking at a
number of areas that are
very critical in trying to
improve them. But the thing
is, is that typically when
you, if we were to
look at, let's say a
2.0 release, which we really
aren't focusing on at the
moment is that that would
tend to imply that there
would be dramatic changes. And
so that would mean that
there'll be other, say for
example, dramatic API changes, and
there are places they clearly
with the API could probably,
you know, it could probably
use some polishing, know, maybe
some more descriptive names or
what have you. But I
don't think having those changes
is better making those changes
is beneficial enough to warrant
breaking a significant number of
existing code bases. I think
it's, it's far more important
at this point to promote
stability, performance and quality than
to have any large overhauls.
And I think what's important
here is that the plugin
architecture for jQuery really makes
us possible because if the,
you know, if there wasn't
a way to easily snap
in this new functionality, somebody
would be forced to continually
be adding on and just
constantly growing and growing. And
I know that you guys
really focus a lot on
performance. I mean, one, one,
two, six was a, I
mean, I misspoke earlier and
I said, one five. I
was thinking about jQuery UI,
but a one to six
has a major performance improvements.
How are you figuring these,
these, these improvements out? And
I'm curious how often you
get into a situation where
you have to write an
entirely separate chunk of code
to make it fast on
one browser versus fast on
another whole different branch to
say, gosh, we can make
it a hundred percent faster
on Firefox, but if we
do, it's gonna suck on
E or whatever. Yeah. So,
okay. So the first part
is for, you know, where
to improve. We really, so
there's a couple of us.
We have, we have a
bunch of tools that we
use, including Firebug, but I
bought a tool recently for
profiling jQuery application. You can,
you, you stick this little
library into your webpage. It
uses jQuery. And after the
page finishes running, it dumps
a full report out. And
it tells you exactly how
much where all your time
is being spent. So this,
this tool then really eyeopening
lately. We've been able to
use this in a number
of places like, like, we,
we can take this and
we can insert it into,
you know, major websites that
use jQuery and, and get
a feel for what is
hurting them the most. And
so for example, one place,
we were going to be
making optimizations to our ride-on
modification code. So being able
to append prepared, answer before
insert after, and we've made
some dramatic changes because we
found that to be one
of the largest bottlenecks and
applications. So that improvement is
going to be, it's going
to be quite, quite good.
So what was the other
half of the question? Well,
I was wondering if there,
if you ever got yourself
in a situation where you
found that you could make
something a hundred percent faster
or some percent faster, but
if you did, it would
negatively impact some other browser.
And then you ended up
with a different, you know,
basically with a switch statement
in a different branch to
say, you know, if I
E do it this way,
else do it that way.
There are cases where that
happens and it is, it
is quite tricky. W generally
speaking, we try to write
our code in a very
agnostic way that does rely
upon a particular browser in
certain way. So whatever we
can, we try to determine
ways in which you can
make a smart guess about,
which will be faster. I
mean, we, we would prefer
not to have one advisor
better fit at the sacrifice
of another. And I don't
think we've ever had a
case where it's, where it's
been really dramatic. I mean,
we may have been able
to get like a dramatic
improvement in one browser to
a slight degregation and rather
BattleTech has never had was
something quite extreme, but I
mean, it's, it's been, yeah.
I mean, it's hard cause
you have to take it
really on a, on a
case by case basis. One
thing that we've been looking
at here for what three,
and that's going to be
quite new and quite exciting
is that we're working to
move all uses of browser,
user agents sniffing. This is
something that, of virtually all
modern JavaScript libraries use. And,
you know, you know, saying,
you know, if internet Explorer
do this or, you know,
if Firefox do this and
we've worked out some code
that is going to make
it possible that we don't
have to do that anymore
in jQuery it's, it's, it's,
it's a lot of code,
but we think it'll be
really worth it. And it's
going to help to promote
some good practices to a
web developers as a whole.
So we're be really quite
excited by that. So this
is a technique that other
people are gonna be able
to use. It's gonna, it's
gonna raise the water level
for everybody. Yeah, yeah. So
I mean, an important part
of this is that, you
know, is, is what's called
off feature simulation and doing
so such testing a feature
and seeing it to behave
like the, expect it to,
and if, if it, if
it does it and, you
know, doing a fallback, something
that works properly. And what's
interesting about this is that
you effectively removed the need
for, you know, for sniffing
at that point from making
a blind decision about a
browser. And generally the code
just becomes much, much better.
Huh? Wow. Well, I really
think it's great the way
that you guys really do
this development out in the
open with, particularly with the
test suites. I mean, certainly
open source projects that should
be doing their work in
the open, but you're so
detailed in your, in your
differences between the different, you
know, showing your test suites
and showing, you know, here
are the eight browsers we're
testing on and here's the
diff between this version and
that version, some of the,
the improvements in speed are
just obscene, like the, the,
between one, two, three, and
one, two six, some of
the changes in JavaScript map,
like one of them was
a opera nine went from
like two and a half
seconds to 95 milliseconds or
something like that. It was
just unreal amounts of improvement.
And if you go down
the entire sheet, there isn't
a single place where something
didn't get at least slightly
faster. Yeah. Yeah. So, I
mean, I guess that's, that's
important is that interesting part
about having effectively a static
code days? That's not to
say that the shake for
it, isn't going to change
add new methods. It's just,
at this point we're changing
very, very well of, of
the API. And because of
that, we can, we can
really just focus on iterating
and improving what we have
fixing bugs, fixing, you know,
looking, digging and seeing where,
where the performance pains are
and just continually improving and
iterating and making a better,
which I, I think it's
a really, really lucky situation,
you know, just being able
to just iterate like this
One last question I wanted
to ask you is how
do you decide what plugins
to, to bring in his
appointment as a plugin, the
best way for someone to
kind of get noticed? I
mean, it is what's happened
historically is, you know, people
that a plug in and
in a couple of cases
there there's been plugins that
have just been immensely useful.
And what we find are
just people using them over
and over again. And there's,
you know, there's a coming
to rely on them and
other plugins are coming to
rely on them. So what
we've started to do now
is to take these really
successful plugins and start to,
you know, integrate them back
into core. And this has
been, this has been really
useful for us, and it's
been great for the plugin
office as well to see
there, the code effectively, you
know, graduate and, you know,
the, the user's benefit. And
what's nice about this is
that it serves as a,
as a testing ground because
such we don't actually have
to introduce these new methods
into the core. You know,
we can, you can just
say, Oh, here, just use
this plugin, let us know
how it works. And eventually
we can integrate it back
in. And I think that's,
it's ended up being really,
you know, successful model of
development for us. I think
that's a really successful model
for development. I'm kind of
for everyone. I think that
looking of course, hindsight is
2020. So looking back, it
seems obvious, but the idea
that if one makes it
as just incredibly easy to
extend, one's open source project
fan, rather than saying, you
know, let's all fight about
who's going to get commit
access and who's going to
be able to extend the
core, just make it incredibly
extensible and then, you know,
pick the right ones to
pull back in. It seems
like it's a more natural
model for an open source
project. It's just a more
natural opensource way of doing
things. But that, that is
all predicated on having an
incredibly simple model for extensibility.
Yeah. Yeah. Cool. Well, John,
I really appreciate you taking
the time to sit down
and talk to me today
about jQuery and we'll have
links to all the information
about John and jQuery up
on the show site. Thanks
again. Thanks for having me.
And this has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again next week.